# proAmatuer
GET1033 Final Project
GET1033 Project Reflection 
Muggerino. A project that was 5 weeks in the making with my teammate Lee Chee Wan. It started off as an idea to create a game that would be beneficial to the younger generation in the aspect of education. Although we had virtually no experience in coding before the commencement of this module, we felt that it was necessary to produce a game which embodies the multiple concepts we had learnt during the duration of the module. Thinking through the multiple subjects in focus such as physics and chemistry, a consensus was arrived at with mathematics as the preferred choice, being an indispensable factor for everyday life. The goal of this project is to motivate the users to learn the multiplication table through a digitalized platform which is more liked by the technologically savvy younger generation. This is also coupled with graphics related to the theme of nature which emulates a calm environment for learning to take place unlike the confines of a classroom. 
The project can be linked to the terms of Inscription, Transmission and Representation that was taught during week 1 of the module. Inscription of the game is on a digitalised platform which contains code and 3D objects that was formed in Unity. Transmission is in the form of white light photons bouncing off the canvas of the game and reflecting light that is of the same colour towards our eyes. Lastly, representation is where an interactive multiplication game is put in place with the help of the Unity software. These fulfil the criteria for a medium allowing for effective communication of ideas to the users of the game. In class learning of basic coding and conditional statements starting off with Openprocessing was where the foundation of the final game Muggerino was established. Being able to move objects by manipulating the coordinates of the objects was something that intrigued me personally for its multiple applications that could be done. Subsequent creation of my own take of the pong game was where I learnt the delicate nature of coding, for a missing symbol would render the code unusable. Debugging from the creation of the Pong game was essential in the development of Muggerino on multiple occasions. Conditional statements learnt in tutorials were added to the final game in the aspect where a collision with the right answer would result in an addition of points, while the collision with the wrong answer after a fixed number of tries would instigate a restart operation to reset the scores and start a fresh. 
Furthermore, the presence and benefits of the World Wide Web that was taught during week 5, made the creation of my final game possible. Multiple online tutorials had to be watched to understand the functionalities of the Unity game engine as it was slightly different compared to programmes such as Openprocessing and HTML game creations that was taught in class. Internet communities such as https://forum.unity.com/ allowed for numerous doubts to be cleared. By reading the questions and solutions posted by other users, my teammate and I were able to draw essential ideas from the recommended answers to fit our game. One such area where this was done is for the creation of the ‘Tree’ object in our game. In order to better understand how the proBuilder asset tool could be used for object creation we needed to understand how to use each function in that tool. Such forums thus proved to be beneficial to us. Speaking about the area of object creation, the introduction of Tinkercad by one of the groups as part of their presentation played an integral role for designing the objects used in Muggerino. Objects such as the suspended platforms, tunnels and 3D designed numbers were created from Tinkercad. However, the use of the 3D shaped numbers had to be scraped for it proved to be a great hurdle for us to overcome to generate on the canvas. Each number was tagged with its corresponding value (E.g. the tag ‘1’ is attached to the object which has the 3D shape of 1), and to instantiate the next answer according to the new multiple equation required coding knowledge that was not familiar to either of us. We thus switched to a system where there would only be one correct answer object that has a text element attached to it. The new answer would appear in the form of a text overlaid on the object.  Despite the drawbacks Tinkercad was an essential software in the development of the final game. Concepts such as visual rhetoric and procedural rhetoric is evident in the game. The visuals of a calm and peaceful environment filled with greenery embodies the message of learning mathematics to be something that should be taken in our stride instead of being viewed as a problem that cannot be solved.  Procedural rhetoric was portrayed in the sense where the user had to collide with the answer corresponding with the multiplication shown. Failure to do so would result in the reduction of lives.
Janet Murrays four affordances of spatial, encyclopedic, participatory and procedural can be applied to analyse Muggerino. The spatial affordance is seen from the ability of the player to navigate the game where freedom is given in moving left, right and jumping to avoid obstacles while picking up the right answer. Participatory affordance is evident from the ability of the player to interact with the game, utilising button controllers of keys on the keyboard ‘w’, ’a’ and ‘d ‘for movement while the ‘ESC’ key is used to pause the game. UI buttons were also incorporated for greater interactivity between the player and the game. As for the encyclopedic quality which is the ability to store tons of information, it consists of codes and material objects in the game. Furthermore, the inclusion of multiple conditional and if statements have resulted in the ability for the user to follow a set of rules during the process of gameplay giving rise to procedural affordance. The following diagram illustrates the extent of which each affordance is present in the game from my point of view.
 
Figure 1: Adapted from [1]
Muggerino is able to utilise the new abilities of computers to its advantage. New computers have broadened the interconnectedness of people through networking and the World Wide Web. This results in people to be more informed about upcoming news and applications. The establishment of Muggerino on such a medium would result in greater downloads of the game allowing for its benefits of learning the multiplication table to be experienced among a wider reach of the younger population. Since the game is based on a scoring system there would be competition among the players as to whom is able to attain the highest score. For future developments of the game, the usernames of the players can be recorded together with their high score and displayed on a list that showcases the players with the top scores. 
New abilities of computers also include the Graphical user interface (GUI) system where it lets users see digital information through a screen that has pixels on bit-mapped displays. Such a system exists in a widely known gadget called the smartphone. Muggerino can be converted to a mobile application format for Android and Apple users using the unity engine where the game was developed. Controls of the player can be shifted to include the conventional button click to move system or utilising the inbuilt gyroscope in smartphones to manipulate the movement of the player. Witnessing the advancements in feature tracking capabilities in smartphones, an example being the ability to unlock the device using facial recognition technology, people whom have difficulty in their motor skills could utilise this technology to their advantage. An individual whom is unable to operate a computer using standard methods have started to adopt to use the eye gaze technology made by Tobii systems as an alternative [2]. The system allows for the individuals eye to be tracked by use of a camera and displayed on the screen in the form of a clicker where he is able to select the options provided. Likewise, this system could be incorporated into Muggerino where the player moves according to where the user is looking, allowing for individuals to learn the multiplication table through an interactive platform regardless of their disabilities. Computers being more compact as compared to the first computer Z1 created by Konrad Zuse [3], allows for the game Muggerino to be played on the go without having the need to be plugged to an electrical socket to function.
Inspiration for Muggerino was from a handful of games which my teammate and I found interesting. One of them being a game which has over 200 million downloads, Crossy Road [4]. It is an endless runner game developed by Hipster Whale which includes bright graphics and cartoonish characters. The objective is to get the character across the road safely without causing an accident. The concept of moving the player avoiding obstacles and picking up items along the way was incorporated into our game of Muggerino together with the creation of a character in the form of a car to appeal to the younger generation. 
Another game which we drew inspiration from is another best seller called Jetpack Joyride having over 500 million downloads [5]. It involves the player controlling a character fitted with a jetpack avoiding obstacles and collecting coins across levels. The scoring system for Muggerino was adopted from this game where the score is based on the distance travelled by the character through the game. To add our own twist to the game, picking up the right answer in Muggerino increases the score by an additional amount allowing for the player to be motivated to get the most correct answers to have the highest score. 
Finally, the 1972 version of the Pong game which was spoken about during the lecture was essential in my understanding of conditional statements which was utilised in multiple areas of Muggerino. Conditional statements in Pong 1972 involved the need for the ball to reverse its direction of motion when it collides with the paddle. Scores were also calculated based on conditional statements. This inspired me to create my own version of the pong game as described earlier which I submitted for the assignment of week 4.  Figure 2 is a screenshot of the layout of the version of the game which I submitted where the objective is to score the balls in the slot above and prevent it from falling below the bottom paddle. Two paddles were added to involve the need for coordination as it may work against the player if not used appropriately (Ball may hit the second paddle and return to the bottom). The moving faces represents distractions which should be ignored by the player to achieve his goal of winning the game, putting forth the message that no matter how people try to dampen your spirit relentless effort is needed to strive for success. From this experience, Muggerino includes conditional statements such as a resistive force kicking into place when the player crosses a fixed height from the ground and a restart function triggering when the player collides with an obstacle.  
 
Figure 2: My version of the Pong game submitted for class assignment
In conclusion, the development of Muggerino has opened my eyes to the world of digital media where it is much more diverse than I imagined. Forums where people share their knowledge, videos where hands on tutorials are displayed and multiple websites which showcases the fine works of individuals is only a handful that could be named. 
 

References

[1] 	D. Ang, "Four Affordances," Openprocessing, [Online]. Available: https://www.openprocessing.org/sketch/445859. [Accessed 8 November 2018].
[2] 	Inclusive Technology, "Eye Gaze – say it with your eyes!," Inclusive Technology Ltd, [Online]. Available: http://www.inclusive.co.uk/articles/eye-gaze-say-it-with-your-eyes-a490. [Accessed 10 November 2018].
[3] 	Computer Hope, "When was the first computer invented?," Computer Hope, 24 January 2018. [Online]. Available: https://www.computerhope.com/issues/ch000984.htm. [Accessed 10 November 2018].
[4] 	N. Clayton, "Crossy Road celebrates over 200 million downloads," Pocket Gamer, 24 August 2018. [Online]. Available: https://www.pocketgamer.biz/news/68842/crossy-road-celebrates-over-200-million-downloads/. [Accessed 10 November 2018].
[5] 	Apple INC, "App Store Preview," Apple, [Online]. Available: https://itunes.apple.com/sg/app/jetpack-joyride/id457446957?mt=8. [Accessed 10 November 2018].



